.
.TH "XYZ2FLH" "1" "November 2014" "AutoBpe" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xyz2flh \- AutoBpe Software Collection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xyz2flh
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]... \fI[OPTIONS]\fR \fI[POINTS]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The xyz2flh
program transforms a set of points read from a file or stdin from geocentric rectangular to geodetic coordinates. One can also
perform the inverse transformation via the -i switch (see \fIOPTIONS\fR). The user is also allowed to select from a reference 
ellispoid and input/output units (by default these are considered as meters for linear and radians for angular quantities).
The input points must be formated as: [Name] x y z (i.e. Name is optional), one line for each point.
.SH OPTIONS
No whitespace character between the option flag and the associated argument(s) is needed.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Specify the output units (only applicable when transforming from geocentric rectangular to 
geodetic coordinates). User can choose between: \fBr\fR for radians, \fBd\fR decimal degrees
\fBh\fR hexicondal degress
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Specify the input units (only applicable when transforming from geodetic to 
geocentric rectangular coordinates). Options are as above (option \fB-u\fR).
.TP
\fB\-i\fR
Perform the inverse transformation, i.e. from geodetic to geocentric cartesian
coordinates.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR
Specify a reference ellipsoid for the transformation. By default GRS80 is used. User
can choose between the following models: \fBGRS80\fR, \fBITRF\fR, \fBWGS84\fR, \fBPZ90\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display help mesage and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Display version and exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr: 
.LP
\fINeed to specify output units\fR or \fIInvalid output units\fR 
Bad or no argument given for the -u option. Exit code 1. 
.LP
\fINeed to specify ellipsoid name\fR or \fIUnknown Ellipsoid/datum\fR 
Bad or no argument given for the -e option (reference ellipsoid). Please use the
ellipsoid names exactly as specified above. Exit code 1.
.LP
\fICould not open file\fR
Self-Explanatory; Exit code 1.
.LP
\fIUnknown cmd option\fR
Self-Explanatory; Process not interrupted.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The program will return 0 on success, else some other integer (see \fDIAGNOSTICS\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
Transform from geocentric rectangular to geodetic coordinates from stdin, using the
WGS84 ellipsoid; output the geodetic coordinates in hexicondal degrees (to stdout)
.RS
xyz2flh -eWGS84 -uh 
.RE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report xyz2flh bugs to 
.br
Demitris Anastasiou <danast@mail.ntua.gr>
.br
Xanthos Papanikolaou <xanthos@mail.ntua.gr>
.SH "AUTHOR"
National Technical University of Athens,
.br
School of Rural and Surveying Engineering,
.br
Dionysos Satellite Observatory, Higher Geodesy Laboratory
.br
